[Music]
so have you ever stepped back and
wondered what your voice sounds like to
other people your friends and family can
probably identify you just by the sound
of your voice and it turns out it says a
lot about us 1 your voice hints at how
social you are specifically people can
tell whether you're an extrovert or
introvert extroverts tend to talk loudly
quickly and excitedly introverts tend to
speak quietly and more slowly so if
you're that loud person at a party
you'll probably find that all eyes are
on you
whereas introverts won't likely be at
that party at all to your
trustworthiness just one word can make
the difference between whether or not
someone trusts you in one study
participants heard several recordings of
just the word hello women said that men
who said hello with a deep pitch on the
end of the word sounded more trustworthy
in the Reverse men said they put more
trust into the recordings of people that
put a higher pitch on the end of the
word it's all about that pitch have you
ever used a person's voice to gauge
their trustworthiness did it work
3 your voice says something about your
height this may sound bizarre but if
people close their eyes and hear you
speak they can probably tell if you're
tall or short taller people tend to have
a deeper voice whereas shorter people
tend to have a higher voice this is true
for both men and women think about your
favorite actors and actresses and
compare their voices side-by-side to see
for yourself for how professional you
are ok let's talk about upspeak ever
heard of it maybe not the term but I
guarantee you've heard people speak this
way up speak is a talking trip
especially in North America where the
speaker gives the end of a sentence and
upward inflection in other words people
who talk this way make a statement sound
like a question
those with up speak sound less sure of
themselves and less educated and
therefore less professional something to
keep in mind at
next job interview to give you the edge
five a woman's fertility if a woman is
at the point in her cycle where she's
most fertile her voice will
involuntarily take on a higher pitch
this has an evolutionary purpose since
our early ancestors could use this as a
tool to gauge whether a woman was ready
and suitable for childbearing likewise
studies have shown that a woman's voice
will take on a higher pitch when she's
speaking to someone she's attracted to
cell pay attention six a man's upper
body strength one study had participants
listened to male voices from different
countries speaking their own languages
the strength of the men who provided the
recordings was tested the men with the
deepest voices scored highest in body
strength
specifically the upper body another
thing to pay attention to in the dating
world hmm again think of the
evolutionary purpose during the time of
early man women would gravitate toward
the men with deeper voices since they
tended to be the strongest
she knew he could protect her defend
their home and was probably a good
hunter an athlete having a good sense of
humor apparently came later seven your
voice can tell others about your health
if you've noticed a lot of changes in a
person's voice the pace at which they
talk the tone and pitch of their voice
or whether their voice has become
quieter they may have Parkinson's
disease these changes can happen in the
voice due to the tremors that a patient
would be experiencing eight your
kindness and empathy what does your
mother's voice sound like or your
grandmother's hopefully it sounded warm
soft and kind hearing an adult speak
slowly and calmly with a warm tone has a
calming effect on children and even on
pets adults notice this too if someone's
voice sounds cold tight
Brunt we might assume that this means
they're unable to understand the
feelings of others it's not just in your
head
9 whether you're a leader or not when
you feel confident and know what you're
doing you tend to raise the pitch of
your voice when negotiating or debating
with someone you would also pay
attention to how often and when you're
raising your voice and would speak
enthusiastically all this makes you
sound like a leader and people will tend
to get behind you simply raising your
voice and talking over people in a sharp
cold way makes you sound like you're
trying to cover up your lack of
knowledge or experience not someone
people would trust a lead 10
stress level if we're stressed out our
vocal cords tend to tighten this will
make your voice sound crackly and uneven
you might also spit it a stumble over
your words overall you'll sound like you
have pretty disorganized speech which
gives off the impression of stress and
anxiety 11 confidence level a confident
person will have a smooth and steady
tone will keep their volume at a
comfortable stable level and their words
will come out and an even pace those
type vocal cords I talked about in a
stressed out person will be loose in a
confident person this allows steady air
flow so the person will sound equally
steady and at ease people would perceive
this person as strong and confident 12
the vocal attractiveness stereotype one
study found that there's a correlation
between how attractive or pleasant your
voice sounds and how desirable you are
physically oh I get that all the time
now keep in mind these are stereotypes
so this doesn't ring true for everyone
take it with a grain of salt maybe a
little pepper in this study men who
sounded attractive tend to have broader
shoulders and narrower hips women who
sounded attractive tended to have narrow
waists and larger hips what do you think
has this been true in your experience 13
how well you control your emotions
talking slowly in an even and warm tone
gives the impression that you're in
control and at ease a good indicator
that you're perfectly able to keep your
emotions in check if you talk too
quickly in the picture of your voice is
too high you might sound hysterical
high-strung and anxious people will
think you can't control your emotions
and you'll sound unprofessional and
sloppy 14 the nasally voice a nasally
voice makes a person sound dependent
calculating at call a person with a
voice like this is unlikely to be taken
seriously as well plus a nasally
sounding voice is just overall annoying
the most people if you fall into this
category what can you do about it well
try opening your mouth wider as you
speak so that your voice comes more
directly from your voice box than
through your nose 15 how successful you
are our voices are as unique as we are
but the voices of people who are
considered to be successful have a
couple of things in common think back to
the earlier point about sounding
confident successful people's voices
tend to be of a lower warmer tone their
words come out evenly and their vocal
cords won't be tight they'll speak
loudly enough to make themselves heard
but not so loudly that they're
unpleasant to listen to they'll be very
aware of their voice and what it sounds
like 16 how creative you are a creative
person may not actually talk much
because they're daydreaming people
watching or thinking deeply but when
they do talk they certainly won't be
boring to listen to
they'll have a wide vocabulary and we'll
talk in an excited animated way they'll
have emotional highs and lows
tongue will match plus these people
aren't likely to use voice deception
techniques like lowering or raising
their pitch or tone as someone lying
would tend to do or playing around with
their volume 17 if someone is lying in
the middle of a lie someone's voice
might get shaky and change pitch or tall
people who are lying tend to speak in a
higher tone than their natural everyday
voice a liar may also start to stutter
making their voice sound halted and
nervous remember those tight vocal
chords their voice will not come out
smoothly and they may raise it to try
and distract you from your interrogation
it may take some voice comparison
experiments but a person's voice can be
a big clue as to whether they're being
truthful and that's all I have to say
about that hey if you learn something
new today then give this video a like
and share with a friend
here are some other videos I think
you'll enjoy just click to the left or
right and remember stay on the bright
side of life
[Music]